hello and welcome to cupcake addictions
Harry Potter sorting hat tutorial where
I'll be showing you how to make this
great sorting hat cupcake from Harry
Potter tools and equipment that we will
be using today I've got some red
buttercream frosting now I've used our
perfectly pipeable buttercream frosting
we do have a recipe for that on our
channel my cupcake addiction so I'll
leave a link to that in the description
box below
I've dieted a vibrant red for those of
you that follow the channel you know my
favorite red in the world is a Mary
coloured Chula bread it's fantastic and
vibrant and gets me the best red color
for my buttercream I've got that in a
disposable piping bag and I've had it
with the loyal number 20 piping nozzle
but any nice round smooth piping nozzle
will do I've got a cupcake ready to ice
I've got just a knife I've got a piece
of fudge so this is soft fudge I've used
caramel fudge today but you can also use
chocolate if you want your sorting hat
to be a little bit darker and a piece of
baking paper or grease proof paper first
thing we want to take our piece of
caramel fudge and you'll see that how
easy it is just to push it out of shape
so it's not a caramel chew it's quite a
bit softer and quite a bit easier to
work with and I just want to give it a
little need don't overwork it you just
want it to be pliable but if you
overwork it it will start to get quite
soft so what we going to do after we've
got it in a nice little ball is you want
to tear off that 1/3 of the ball so you
should have a ball about 2/3 the size of
the larger ball and one about 1/3 maybe
just a touch more on that smaller one so
we're going to take the smaller ball
first of all and just roll it into a
ball and push it out so push it out with
your fingers and then you can just pull
it that maneuver so this is going to be
the bottom of our sorting hat with a
brim with our sorting hat and you do
want that to be quite wide so you'll see
here I'm just pulling it now the sorting
hat is very kind of old and saggy and so
it doesn't need to be a perfect circle
which is why I'm not opting for a circle
cutter or anything like that for this
place that down your piece of baking
paper and just lift up some of the
all sort of edges of it give it that
floppy kind of a look now we're going to
take the other two-thirds of our piece
of caramel fudge roll it into a ball and
then using the palm of your hands just
taper it down into a bit of a cone shape
take your cone give it a good hit on the
table it's going to give us a nice flat
bottom on the cone and we're going to
fashion this into the top of the sorting
hat so to do that I'm going to start
with the tip and I'm just going to bend
it over so that you can see it from the
front this is going to be the front of
my sorting hat now I want to do the
mouth so I'm going to take that knife
and I'm going to cut a nice kind of a
grumpy looking hole in his face so I'm
gonna cut it quite deep and then I'm
going to push him back down onto it so
you can see there as I'm pushing I'm
just pulling those the sides of that
mouth down so he's looking nice and
grumpy and as is and then I'm going to
take my little fingers and I'm just
going to make it an indent there for one
I can end it there for the other eye now
using the back of my knife because I
want these to be a bit fatter than the
mouth or thicker than of the mouth I am
just going to take my tip and push it in
there now you can take your knife and
just give him a few kind of just
wrinkles around the place and don't
worry if it starts to push out a shape a
little bit because we're going to shape
him onto other little piece of fudge so
I've just popped a few wrinkles in the
back make sure with his the top of his
hat to that it is kind of tilting around
so that you can see it from the front
you want to see the tip of that hat from
the front so people know what it is now
take that and you shouldn't need
anything to a fix it because the caramel
fudge will be quite soft and quite
sticky so pick the best side of your
broom that you want to have facing for
it and sit him down once he's down just
take your fingers and
gently push around the edges so that he
attaches nicely don't you don't want to
really blend it in or anything there
you've got your really cool Harry Potter
sorting hat now I would ideally put that
back in the fridge for about five
minutes just because we've been handling
that caramel fudge and it will be quite
soft I'm not going to because I'm
hopeful that I'll get it off that begs
of greaseproof paper definitely do put
it on the greaseproof paper though I'm
going to stick it straight onto the
cupcake I opted for bread yellow and
blue for my Harry Potter themed cupcake
because Harry Potter scarf is red and
yellow and the snitch lives in the sky
so blue seems appropriate so I'm just
going to do one of our lovely lo swirls
we've got a whole tutorial dedicated to
this I'm going to just take it up a
little bit higher than I normally would
pick your best side for your nose swirl
and it is going to be as easy as pulling
that sorting hat off and pushing him
down to the cupcake so that you've got a
fantastically easy Harry Potter sorting
hat cupcake the perfect companion to our
snitch cupcake and our Harry Potter
broom and glasses cupcake we hope you've
enjoyed this tutorial as much as we've
enjoyed making it for you and thank you
very much for watching